today on our 2013 Ford Explorer we'll
install the curt hitch part number
c13105 it's from the center of the hitch
pin hole to the outermost edge of the
bumper is four and three-quarter inches
from the top of the receiver tube to the
ground is 16 and a quarter inches this
will assist you with selecting
accessories such as a drawbar a bike
rack or cargo carrier
now let's go ahead with installation
first for install the hitch we'll need
to lower the exhaust we'll remove the
three rear most rubber Isolators from
the metal hangers of the exhaust
the lower the exhaust will first put a
safety strap underneath the exhaust so
that once we remove the hangers we can
safely lower the exhaust without
damaging anything further up the line
near the engine
well spray each isolator and then use
the pry bar to remove it
now we can safely go ahead and use a
safety strap to lower the exhaust
next we'll need to remove the metal
exhaust hangers from the frame rail by
removing the two fasteners on each side
then once we have the hangers removed
we'll remove the rubber isolator from
the hanger setting the hanger aside is
it will not be reinstalled we repeat the
same process on the opposite side next
we'll go ahead and point out the
attachment points we'll have a total of
five attachment points two on the
driver's side which will be the weld
nuts built into the frame by the
manufacturer and three on the passenger
side again two weld nuts built in by the
manufacturer and the third will be a
carriage bolt and block that will
install into the frame through the
excess hole being the rear attachment
point here on the passenger side keep in
mind that the two weld nuts are the same
on both sides so each process we do here
to the passenger's side will get
repeated identically on the driver's
side now let's go ahead and point out
the hardware the attachment point here
on the passenger side we'll use the
half-inch carriage bolt and block along
with a flange nut for our rear
attachment hardware to get our carriage
bolt and block into position we'll use
the half-inch pull wire provided with
our install kit we want and take the
pull wire slide the block onto the pull
wire and then thread on our carriage
bolt then we'll feed the carriage bolt
up into the frame followed by the block
quick tech tip you can make it easier to
line up with the hitch if you install
the longer side of the block facing
forward of the vehicle in the frame once
you have the carriage bolt and block up
into the frame we'll pull them back to
the access hole that we just fed them
through creating our rear attachment
point next we'll need to take the rubber
Isolators that we removed from the
exhaust hangers and attach them to the
hitch we'll use the 7/16 bolt to flat
washers and one 7/16 lock nut for each
hanger we'll take the flat washer feed
it through the 7/16 bolt through the
rubber isolator then through our
attachment point of the hitch install
our second flat washer and then our lock
nut now we can go ahead and tighten it
down next we'll go ahead and repeat the
same process on the opposite side
now we're ready to go ahead and install
the hitch to secure the hitch to the
vehicle at the weld nut attachment
points
we'll use the new 12 millimeter bolt and
conical tooth washer with the teeth of
the washer facing the hitch at this
point it's a good idea to get an extra
set of hands to help you hold the hitch
in place while you install your
fasteners as you bring the passenger
side up into position we'll take the
bolt leader feed it through the
attachment point and then secure the
hitch with the 12 millimeter bolts to
the weld nuts in the frame now we can go
ahead and remove the bolt leader install
the flange nut with all of our hardware
in place we can now go ahead and tighten
them down next we'll go ahead and torque
to specifications as indicated
instructions
now with our hitch secured and torque to
specifications we go ahead and reinstall
the exhaust and with that done this will
complete the install of our curt hitch
part number c13105 Explorer